The Joe Rogan.
Experience. By the way, I was one of my boys was home sick the other day, uh,
from school, the middle boy Slugo. And, uh, so we were sitting on the sofa.
I said, well, you know, you're not feeling you wanna watch a movie. Oh,
God bless him. He's he's 10 years old. He considers himself a baller.
All he wants to do is play basketball. That's all he wants to do with his life.
He knows he's gonna get, uh,
recruited by two knows he's gonna end up in the NBA. And,
but we're sitting there and it was really kind of sweet cuz he's, you know,
he's got all this hard side to him and I'm just playing ball. And then he says,
well, yeah, let's watch a Disney movie.
So we kind of dialed up Disney plus because we like were sheep and we bought the
Disney plus thing and, and uh, Peter pan and the original Peter pan, right.
The original E Peter pan.
So we turned it on and I'd forgotten what that movie was like in terms of its
treatment of native Americans. Oh, horrible. My God.
So we're watching it and we get to that part where, you know, they're,
they're singing that song and the,
the boys lost boys are tied up with windy and Michael and all, and, and the,
the, the chief comes in and he wants to find tiger Lily, the princess, you know,
because hook is, the viewers are like, what the hell's going on here. So anyway,
I'm sitting there and, and even Slugo looks at me and he goes, wow,
this is kind of racist. <laugh> <laugh> really,
but a 10 year old said that, yeah. 10 year old sense. And I thought, well, okay,
everything was racist back. Everything was racist. Well, that's what we had.
We had a conversation. I said, yeah, know what you, yeah,
pretty much what I told them.
But anyway, well, particularly about native Americans. I mean, they just,
they were able to get away with it. Mm. Nobody, nobody protested it. I've been,
uh, I'm reading this book now or I'm listening to it on tape called uh,
black elk speaks it's about this, uh,
Al Sioux medicine man who was, uh, while he was still alive in the,
the 1930s, they, they wrote this book. We,
he told the story of Custer and he was there.
He was a young boy when Custer was killed.
And he told the story of like life on the planes and crazy horse.
And it's fascinating. What was it written? It's written in 1930s. Okay.
Early. It's called what? Black Elks. Black elk speaks. Okay. I've written,
I've listened to on tape. Uh,
this is like the fourth or fifth one that I've listened to on native Americans
over the last couple of months. But this is the best one.
This is the best one because not that the other ones. Weren't great.
They were great.
But what's interesting about this is the actual words of a man who lived that
life. It's not just a historical, um,
a book about the time and describes the events at the time.
This is a guy describing what he saw and he was talking particular about war,
about the way it was when you know, they killed Custer. And you,
he was there when they killed Custer. Yeah. And just the,
the battles between the American soldiers and the native Americans. It's like,
it's crazy. It's crazy to think that it happened just a show time ago. Yeah.
And, and it's also crazy to think that if no one came to America, if like,
if the world just stayed in Europe and Asia and,
and then the way it had been before Columbus and before the pilgrims and all
that, these people would probably still be living like that.
Cuz that's not that long.
Ago. Well, I mean, it's you think about it's it's what was it?
It was a waring tribal culture. Yeah. Well else. I mean,
where else do we have this? I I'm probably gonna make a Bo at this point,
but um, yeah. War tribal cultures in the middle east. Right. I mean, it's, it's,
it's a, it's, it's, it's, it's a difficult environment, right.
In which to say, okay,
we're gonna have some sort of federal system we're gonna come together.
We're gonna work for the greater good, you know? And, but I, I mean,
I think it's, I will say this, I, the most depressing, um,
scenes I've ever seen have been on, um,
native American Indian reservations in this country. And I I've never been,
oh my God.
Um, I've never, other than casinos.
It's just, um, you go and you and I, I look,
I spent most of my adult life overseas right. In some pretty grim places.
And I remember the first time I,
I was on a reservation here in the us and I thought, how can this,
how can this possibly be here?
And I know that's a naive you've thought and people think, well, how,
how could you not know that it was here? But it's, you know, a,
it's not a good history, but B it's, it's not a good follow up either. I mean,
right. We haven't, we just, to this day, we don't do a very good job at all.
And, uh, the reservation systems, not, not all of 'em, of course it's not,
it's like every, you know, not every urban center is, you know, crime. Right.
I mean, that's ridiculous, but I'm just saying in general, you know,
some of the most difficult place I've ever seen have been right here in our
borders, right. On Indian reservations and good.
God. Yeah. I want to get someone who's in here. Someone to come in here,
who's a native American,
who's a historian who really understands the history of,
of their tribe and someone who could come in here and talk to me about it
because I just had a,
sort of a peripheral understanding of it up until about five or six months ago.
I really, you know, I,
I had seen movies and I had read books and I'd kind of understood, but I,
I didn't really, really get into it until I started reading these books.
And it's just,
it's just incredible to think that there was millions and millions of tribes or
millions and millions of, um,
members of different tribes living in this country,
like basically like stone age people just 150 years.
Ago. And, and oftentimes, you know, in, in constant conflict with each other,
yes.
That's a big thing that I didn't really understand. Yeah.
The horrific things they did to each other, kidnapped each other,
tortured each other. Yeah. And we came along.
And they're like, what the? Come on, lightening up. I, geez. We, we,
we brought 'em a whole new.
Level. Uh, well, as soon as we figured out repeating guns,
soon as they figured out revolvers with more than one bullet loose,
cuz they were fighting the Manches originally they were fighting 'em with
muskets and the Comanches could shoot like six arrows in 10 seconds.
So they would just lighten these soldiers up cuz they couldn't reload. Right.
So they would wait for the initial volley and then they'd charge in.
And they also could, they were such great horsemen.
They could actually shoot underneath the horse's neck.
So they'd hold onto the rain somehow where they were under the horse's neck and
they were protected and they were shooting at the soldiers. Yeah.
And they were shooting from horses.
Nobody knew how to do that before everybody got off the horse to shoot. Yeah.
And they were shooting covering. Yeah.
I mean, I feel bad for the horse, but he is covering concealment.
That's how the command sheets apparently dominated is that they had so many
horses, they were rich in horses.
They were the ones that figured out how to master the horse the best mm-hmm
<affirmative> they also used small horses.
They didn't use like these big horses is that the Americans used. Right, right,
right. And they were small people. Comanche were fairly small people.
Yeah. No it's it's it is, it is a absolutely it's a fascinating history.
I've spent more time reading sort of the military aspects of, of,
of the Indian wars, right. From, you know, the us military side of things.
And occasionally it'll a book will stray into sort of, okay, well let's look,
you know, from a perspective of, you know, the, the,
the whichever tribe they were in battle with, but not usually very good.
So I'll pick up this book cuz it, it, it is,
it's an amazing history and you're right. It's not that long ago.
There's another great book. Uh,
well there's quite a few of 'em with blood and thunder.
It's about kit Carson read. That is good.
Man, that dude, he was a beat. Get him on the show. My God. Yeah.
He, no, he, he was tremendous. Right? Yeah. And, and from nothing right.
Came from nothing. Right. So.
Uh, and was a small guy wasn't, you know, had a soft voice.
And yeah, there was a, there was a show, um, men who made America,
I think, um, or it was a follow on from that. But it, they,
they had a, a handful of episodes about kit Carson,
but they kind of went through, they picked out some of the, sort of the, the,
the individuals you would imagine. Right. I mean, Daniel Boone and,
and some of the others characters as the frontier.
I think the men who built a frontier I think is what it was called as a
follow-on to that series that they did about the men who built America.
Um okay. Which seems misogynistic. Um, but women probably helped,
they, they, you know, be behind every great Titan of industry. There was, um,
a woman in several of his mistresses. Um, but I think that this,
this thing about building the frontiers was interesting. They tried,
they tried to provide a perspective from, um,
the native American Indian's point of view.
I don't think they necessarily did a very good job because I think they just had
so much room to cover, but it was still worth watching. So it was,
it was a good series.
Yeah. I think most of us are pretty ignorant to what goes on on the reservations
today. And, uh, me included, you know,
you hear these horrible stories of alcoholism and poverty and, you know,
it's just the, they live in these nations inside of a nation. That's, it's,
what's very strange. And the only thing that really, you know,
there's natural resources that can help them,
but really gambling gambling becomes a big revenue source for a lot of them.
And then.
And then people are trying to gain the system they'll pun intended,
but people are gaming the system and saying, ah,
I'm gonna create this non-existent tribe. Right. You get that in Washington,
DC is can't swing a dead cat without hitting some lobbyist.
Who's trying to push for designation of some obscure element as a tribe. Right.
So that they can simply apply for a CA license. Yeah. Uh, yeah. Yeah.
I, I don't know. I'm not sure how you, how you turn that around. There's the,
uh, the native American Indian museum in DC, um, that opened several years back.
Um, it's very good. It's a little tough to follow. I,
I will say this much in terms of just the way they've laid the museum out.
Right. And, uh, but it's,
it's just absolutely full of the ceiling of incredible stories and art and
history bits, but, uh, it's definitely worth people going to DC if they,
if they're saying, okay, I'm gonna go to the Smithsonians.
They should put that one on the list because it's, it's really fascinating.